=item B<Exclude>: [directory|file|link]

Applies to B<dig>, B<mad>, and B<map>.

B<Exclude> controls are optional, and there is no predefined limit
on the number that may be specified.  However, there can be only
one B<Exclude> control/value pair per line.  It is not necessary
to explicitly exclude special file systems such as PROCFS
as B<FTimes> will detect their presence and automatically exclude
them.  B<Exclude> values must be specified as a fully qualified
path (see B<Include> control).  If B<ExcludesMustExist> is enabled,
then each B<Exclude> must reference an existing file, directory,
or symbolic link.  Otherwise, B<FTimes> will abort.

If you need to exclude paths that contain special or non-printable
characters, you must specify the path in the form of a file URL.
Special characters are defined (in square brackets) as C<[`'"|%+#]> or
any non-printable character except for the NULL byte (%00), which is
not allowed for excludes.  For example, the path '/tmp/foo#bar' would
need to be specified as 'file:///tmp/foo%23bar'.

Note: Symbolic links are not supported in WIN32-based file systems.

Note: The exlude mechanism works on an exact match basis, but it
can be used to produce a recursive effect.  For example, if you
include '/' and exclude '/etc', then '/etc' and anything below it
will not be processed.  However, if you include '/etc/hosts' and
exclude '/etc', then '/etc/hosts' will be processed because the
recursive effect would not be in play, and there is no B<Exclude>
that exactly matches it.

