=item B<IncludeFilter>: <pcre-expr>

Applies to B<dig>, B<mad>, and B<map>.

B<IncludeFilter> controls are optional, and there is no predefined
limit on the number that may be specified.  However, there can be only
one control/value pair per line.

Each include filter must be specified as a Perl compatible regular
expression with the caveat that no more than nine capturing '()'
subpatterns for backreferences are allowed.  Use '(?:)' if you require
parentheses for grouping purposes.

Any object matched by a given include filter will be recorded in the
output stream. All other objects are implicitly excluded.  Note that
include filter processing occurs after exclude filter processing, and
once an object has been explicitly excluded, it will not be recorded
in the output stream (even if a matching include filter exists).
If no include filters are specified, include filter processing is
implicitly disabled.

Include filters are applied at various points in the mapping process,
but they only interrupt that process at the point where sufficient
information is available to make a determination.  Consequently,
directory traversal and/or attribute production may be required.
This has several implications:

    - directory/file access times may be altered
    - more data than anticipated may need to be processed
    - run times may be significantly slower than expected

To illustrate the case where directory traversal is required,
suppose that you want to map all files whose filename ends with
the string: '.pdf'.  The corresponding include filter would be
specified as follows:

    IncludeFilter=[.]pdf$

Since there is no way to know, a priori, where all such files are
located, it becomes necessary to traverse all directories applying
the filter to each path encountered.

Note: This control is only available if PCRE support was compiled
into the binary.

