=head1 NAME

B<FTimesXpa> - Create a cross-platform archive.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<ftimes-xpa> B<{-a|--archive}> B<[{-b|--blocksize} bytes]> B<[{-l|--list} {file|-}]> -- B<[target [...]]>

B<ftimes-xpa> B<{-v|--version}>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<FTimesXpa> utility reads one or more files specified in a list
or on the command line and creates a cross-platform archive, which is
written to stdout.  Each specified filename is assumed to be encoded
(i.e., neutered by FTimes), and it is automatically decoded to obtain
the real name, which may contain special characters.  For WINX
platforms, the decoded name is assumed to be a UTF-8 string.

=head1 MODES OF OPERATION

The modes of operation described in this section are mutually
exclusive.  In other words, only one mode may be specified per
invocation.

=over 5

=item B<{-a|--archive}> B<[{-b|--blocksize} bytes]> B<{-l|--list} {file|-}> -- B<[target [...]]>

Create a cross-platform archive containing each file specified in the
B<list> file or on the command line.

=item B<{-v|--version}>

Display version information and exit.

=back

=head1 RETURN VALUES

Upon successful completion, a value of B<0> (B<XER_OK>) is returned.
Otherwise, one of the following error codes is returned:

=over 5

=item *

B<1 => B<XER_Usage>

=item *

B<2 => B<XER_Abort>

=item *

B<3 => B<XER_BootStrap>

=item *

B<4 => B<XER_ProcessArguments>

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=head2 Example 1. Standard operation

This example demonstrates how to create a cross-platform archive of a
file with a neutered name.  In this case, the name contains space and
newline characters.

    ftimes-xpa --archive -- name+with+spaces%0aand%0anewlines > out.xpa

Such a file can be created with the following Perl one-liner:

    perl -e 'open(F, ">name with spaces\nand\nnewlines"); print F "jinx\n";'

=head2 Example 2. Standard operation with input from stdin

This example demonstrates how to create a cross-platform archive from
a list of files passed on stdin.  The list for stdin will be generated
by ftimes(1).

    ftimes --mapauto none -l 6 *.o | ftimes-xpa --archive --list - > out.xpa

=head2 Example 3. Files with alternate data streams

This example demonstrates how to create a cross-platform archive of an
alternate data stream called 'ads1'.

    ftimes-xpa --archive -- some-file-with-a-stream:ads1

If you believe a file contains an alternate data stream, you can use
ftimes(1) to determine its name as follows:

    ftimes --mapauto none -l 6 some-file-with-a-stream

Note that alternate data streams are specific to WINX platforms and
NTFS.

=head1 SEE ALSO

ftimes(1)

=head1 AUTHOR

Klayton Monroe

=head1 HISTORY

This utility was initially written to support a forensic gig where we
needed to create cross-platform archives with built-in integrity
attributes that could be streamed over the network (e.g., via SSH).
We also needed to harvest alternate data streams and handle files with
awkward or mischievous names (i.e., names requiring special handling
to prevent terminal rendering issues and errors in various tools and
shell scripts).

This utility first appeared in B<FTimes> 3.9.0.

