=head1 NAME

B<FTimesCat> - Write the contents of a file or stdin to stdout.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<ftimes-cat> B<{file|-} [...]>

B<ftimes-cat> B<{-v|--version}>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<FTimesCat> utility reads the contents of a file or stdin and
writes them to stdout.  The specified filename is assumed to be
encoded (i.e., neutered by FTimes), and it is automatically decoded to
obtain the real name, which may contain special characters.  For
WINX platforms, the decoded name is assumed to be a UTF-8 string.

=head1 MODES OF OPERATION

The modes of operation described in this section are mutually
exclusive.  In other words, only one mode may be specified per
invocation.

=over 5

=item B<{file|-} [...]>

Write the contents of a file or stdin to stdout.

=item B<{-v|--version}>

Display version information and exit.

=back

=head1 RETURN VALUES

Upon successful completion, a value of B<0> (B<XER_OK>) is returned.
Otherwise, one of the following error codes is returned:

=over 5

=item *

B<1 => B<XER_Usage>

=item *

B<2 => B<XER_Abort>

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=head2 Example 1. Standard operation

This example demonstrates how to cat a file with a neutered name.  In
this case, the name contains space and newline characters.

    ftimes-cat name+with+spaces%0aand%0anewlines

Such a file can be created with the following Perl one-liner:

    perl -e 'open(F, ">name with spaces\nand\nnewlines"); print F "jinx\n";'

=head2 Example 2. Standard operation with input from stdin

This example demonstrates how to copy stdin to a file called
'out.zero'.  The data for stdin will be generated by the dd(1) command
reading from /dev/zero.

    dd if=/dev/zero bs=32k count=1 | ftimes-cat - > out.zero

=head2 Example 3. Files with alternate data streams

This example demonstrates how to cat the contents of an alternate data
stream called 'ads1'.

    ftimes-cat some-file-with-a-stream:ads1

If you believe a file contains an alternate data stream, you can use
ftimes(1) to determine its name as follows:

    ftimes --mapauto none -l 6 some-file-with-a-stream

Note that alternate data streams are specific to WINX platforms and
NTFS.

=head1 SEE ALSO

cat(1), ftimes(1)

=head1 AUTHOR

Klayton Monroe

=head1 HISTORY

This utility was initially written to obtain the content of files with
awkward or mischievous names (i.e., names requiring special handling
to prevent terminal rendering issues and errors in various tools and
shell scripts).

This utility first appeared in B<FTimes> 3.9.0.

