=pod

=head1 NAME

ftimes-dbm-reap - Extract unresolved keys from one or more files

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<ftimes-dbm-reap> B<[-F separator]> B<[-o option[,option[,...]]]> B<[-s sort-command]> B<[-S sort-dir]> B<[-T tag-pair]> B<-t type-tuple> B<file [file ...]>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This utility extracts and conditionally normalizes field values from
one or more input files, tags them (see B<-T>) with an initial tag
value, and writes the results to stdout.  Output is a sorted and
conditionally uniqued list of value/tag pairs having the following
format:

    value|tag

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-F separator>

Specifies the input field separator.  Valid separators include the
following characters: tab '\t', space ' ', comma ',', colon ':',
semi-colon ';', equal sign '=', and pipe '|'.  The default separator
is a pipe.  Note that parse errors are likely to occur if the
specified separator appears in any of the field values.

=item B<-o option,[option[,...]]>

Specifies the list of options to apply.  Currently the following
options are supported:

=over 4

=item BeQuiet

Don't report errors (i.e., be quiet) while processing files.

=item NoUnique

Don't unique the sorted output.

=back

=item B<-S sort-dir>

Specifies the directory sort should use as a temporary work area.  The
default directory is that specified by the TMPDIR environment variable
or /tmp if TMPDIR is not set.

=item B<-s sort-command>

Specifies the name of an alternate sort utility.  Relative paths are
affected by your PATH environment variable.  Alternate sort utilities
must support the B<-o>, B<-T> and B<-u> options.  This program was
designed to work with GNU sort.

=item B<-T tag-pair>

Specifies the tag pair in the following format:

    <tag-type>:<tag-value>

where <tag-type> represents the type of tag and <tag-value> represents
a literal value or the column name, or position (starting at one) of
the field to use as the tag value.  If <tag-type> is VALUE, then
<tag-value> represents a literal value.  If <tag-type> is FIELD, then
<tag-value> represents the column name, or position of the field to
use as the tag value.  The default tag type is VALUE, and the default
tag value is an empty string.

=item B<-t type-tuple>

Specifies a three-tuple type in the following format:

    <file-type>:<field-name>:<field-type>

where <file-type> represents the type of files that are to be
processed, <field-name> represents the column name or position
(starting at one) of the field to process, and <field-type> represents
the expected format of the field values.  If <field-name> is specified
as a name (rather than a position), each input file must have a
header line that contains the named column.

Currently, the following file types are supported: GENERIC.  The value
for this tuple is not case sensitive.

Currently, the following field types are supported: EIN, MD5, SHA1,
SHA256, SSN, and STRING.  The value for this tuple is not case
sensitive.

Note: All files processed in a given invocation must be of the same
type.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Klayton Monroe

=head1 SEE ALSO

ftimes(1), hipdig(1), ftimes-dbm-make(1)

=head1 LICENSE

All documentation and code are distributed under same terms and
conditions as FTimes.

=cut
