=pod

=head1 NAME

ftimes-dig2ctx.pl - Extract context around matched dig strings

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<ftimes-dig2ctx.pl> B<[-hLRv]> B<[-d dir]> B<[-e {file|hex|url}]> B<[-c length]> B<[-p length]> B<[-l regex]> B<[-r regex]> B<[-i count]> B<[-M pattern]> B<[-m pattern-file]> B<[-T drop-file]> B<[-t keep-file]> B<-f {file|-}>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This utility extracts a variable amount of context around matched
dig strings using data collected with ftimes(1) or hipdig(1). Data
collected by either of these tools has the following format:

    name|type|offset|string

or for FTimes releases < 3.5.0

    name|offset|string

Output from this utility is written to stdout and has the following
format:

    dig_name|dig_offset|dig_string|ctx_offset|lh_length|mh_length|rh_length|ctx_string

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-c length>

Specifies the desired context length in bytes.  You may get less
than this amount depending on where the match occurrs and the size
of the input file.

=item B<-d dir>

Specifies the name of the output directory.  The default name is
digtree.  This option is ignored unless the encoding scheme, B<-e>,
is set to file.  Note: The program will abort if the specified or
default directory exists.

=item B<-e {file|hex|url}>

Specifies the type of encoding to use when printing the context
(i.e., ctx_string).

If file is specified, then a new file containing the requested
context in raw form will be created under the directory specified
by the B<-d> option.  The name and location of this file will be
listed in the ctx_string field.  The name format used for these
files is as follows:

  <relative_dig_name>.<ctx_offset>_<relative_dig_offset>_<mh_length>

where <relative_dig_name> is the same as <dig_name> except that
leading path information has been removed, and <relative_dig_offset>
is the offset of the dig string in the newly created file.

=item B<-f {file|-}>

Specifies the name of the input file. A value of '-' will cause the
program to read from stdin.

=item B<-h>

Print a header line.

=item B<-i count>

Specifies the number of input lines to ignore.

=item B<-L>

Preserve the contents of the left-hand boundary. This option is
disabled by default.

=item B<-l regex>

Specifies the left-hand boundary. This is a Perl regular expression
that can be used to limit the amount of context returned.

=item B<-M pattern>

Specifies a pattern that is to be applied to the raw context. The
output records for any context not matched by the pattern will be
discarded. Use the B<-v> option to invert the sense of the match.

Note: The B<-T> and B<-t> options may be used to tee the input to
corresponding drop and keep files -- similar to tee(1). Matched input
records are copied to the keep file, and unmatched records are copied
to the drop file. This is useful for building a context filter chain
where the drop/keep results can be supplied as input to subsequent
stages.

=item B<-m pattern-file>

Specifies a file containing zero or more patterns, one per line, that
are to be applied to the raw context. The output records for any
context not matched by the patterns will be discarded. Use the B<-v>
option to invert the sense of the match.

Note: The B<-T> and B<-t> options may be used to tee the input to
corresponding drop and keep files -- similar to tee(1). Matched input
records are copied to the keep file, and unmatched records are copied
to the drop file. This is useful for building a context filter chain
where the drop/keep results can be supplied as input to subsequent
stages.

=item B<-p length>

Specifies the desired prefix length in bytes.  You may get less
than this amount depending on where the match occurrs in the input
file.

=item B<-R>

Preserve the contents of the right-hand boundary. This option is
disabled by default.

=item B<-r regex>

Specifies the right-hand boundary. This is a Perl regular expression
that can be used to limit the amount of context returned.

=item B<-T>

Specifies the name of a drop tee file that can be used to capture
negative pattern matches.

=item B<-t>

Specifies the name of a keep tee file that can be used to capture
positive pattern matches.

=item B<-v>

Invert the sense of pattern matching -- similar to the way that
egrep(1) works.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Klayton Monroe

=head1 SEE ALSO

ftimes(1), hipdig(1)

=head1 LICENSE

All documentation and code are distributed under same terms and
conditions as FTimes.

=cut
