=pod

=head1 NAME

ftimes-cmp2diff - Display diff-like results of an FTimes comparison

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<ftimes-cmp2diff> B<[-c {compare|-}]> B<[-e {field|name:expr}[,{field|name:expr}[,...]]]> B<[-f format]> B<[-g group-file]> B<[-H ftimes-home]> B<[-m mask]> B<[-o option[,option[,...]]]> B<[-p password-file]> B<-b baseline> B<-s snapshot>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This utility takes baseline and snapshot map files as input, compares
them using a specified or derived field mask, and displays the results
in a diff-like format.  This allows the user to see the details about
what fields changed and how.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-b baseline>

Specifies the name of an FTimes baseline map file.

=item B<-c {compare|-}>

Specifies the name of an FTimes compare file produced by comparing the
snapshot to the baseline.  A value of '-' will cause the program to
read from stdin.

=item B<-e {field|name:expr}[,{field|name:expr}[,...]]>

Specifies a list of map fields to exclude.  Differences for any
field in this list except the name field will be ignored.  For the
name field, the accompanying Perl regular expression governs whether
or not a given record will be ignored/discarded.  Any record with
name value that matches one of the supplied name expressions will
be discarded.  Note that commas (i.e., ',') in expressions must
be encoded as '\x2c' to prevent them from being interpolated as a
field list delimiter.

=item B<-f format>

Specifies the type of diff format to display.  The format can be one
of {f|field} or {s|short}.  The default value is 'short'.

=item B<-g group-file>

Specifies the name of a group file, in the traditional UNIX format, to
use for decoding GIDs.

=item B<-H ftimes-home>

Specifies the location of FTimes components on the client system.  The
default value is 'C:\Program Files\FTimes' and '/usr/local/ftimes' for
WINX and UNIX platforms, respectively.

=item B<-m mask>

Specifies the field mask to use when generating output.

=item B<-o option,[option[,...]]>

Specifies the list of options to apply.  Currently, the following
options are supported:

=over 4

=item BeQuiet

Don't report warnings (i.e., be quiet) while processing files/data.

=item ForceBuild

Force the decoding of map files and creation of offsets files even if
they already exist.

=item ForceClean

Remove decoded map and offsets files upon program completion.

=item GidDecode

Converts the gid field into the name assigned to the corresponding
group. Note that a value of '?' indicates that the decode operation
failed.

=item ModeDecode

Converts the mode field into a standard UNIX representation (e.g.,
'-rwxr-xr-x').

=item NoDecode

Do not decode the map files (i.e., assume that the baseline and
snapshot are already decoded).

Note: If you enable this option and fail to specify decoded map files,
don't expect valid results.

=item UidDecode

Converts the uid field into the name assigned to the corresponding
user. Note that a value of '?' indicates that the decode operation
failed.

=item UseBigIntegers

Activate and use the Math::BigInt module for handling offset
conversions.  Generally, this option should only be used for
backwards compatibility on 32-bit platforms.  Enabling this option
will impact performance, so use it only when necessary.

=back

=item B<-p password-file>

Specifies the name of a password file, in the traditional UNIX format,
to use for decoding UIDs.

=item B<-s snapshot>

Specifies the name of an FTimes snapshot map file.

Note: While not strictly required, it's best if the field mask used
when taking the snapshot matches the one used to create the baseline.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Klayton Monroe and Jason Smith

=head1 SEE ALSO

ftimes(1)

=head1 LICENSE

All documentation and code are distributed under same terms and
conditions as FTimes.

=cut
