=pod

=head1 NAME

ftimes-sortini - Sort dig output by hostname, name, and offset

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<ftimes-sortini> B<[-r]> B<[-m mode]> B<[-s sort-utility]> B<[-T tmp-dir]> B<-f {file|-}>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This utility sorts dig output by hostname (when present), name, and
offset.  The input format can vary so long as it contains at least the
'name' and 'offset' fields.  The two most common formats are:

    name|type|tag|offset|string

and

    hostname|name|type|tag|offset|string|joiner

The first is produced by ftimes(1) and hipdig(1), and the second is
produced by ftimes-dig2dbi(1).

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-f {file|-}>

Specifies the name of the input file.  A value of '-' will cause the
program to read from stdin.

=item B<-m mode>

Sets the sort mode, which can be one of {e|ext|external} or
{i|int|internal}.  The default mode is external.

=item B<-r>

Causes the input to be sorted in reverse order.

=item B<-s sort-utility>

Specifies the name of an alternate sort utility.  Names specified
without a path should work if they can be found using the PATH
environment variable.  GNU sort is the expected sort utility, but
alternate utilities can be used if they support the '-k', '-r', '-T',
and '-t' options in the same manner as the GNU implementation.

=item B<-T tmp-dir>

Specifies the directory sort(1) should use as its temporary work area.
The default directory is that assigned to the TMPDIR environment
variable, or /tmp if TMPDIR is not set.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Klayton Monroe

=head1 SEE ALSO

ftimes(1), ftimes-dig2dbi(1), hipdig(1)

=head1 HISTORY

This utility was initially written to support ftimes-proximo(1).

This utility first appeared in FTimes 3.9.0.

=head1 LICENSE

All documentation and code are distributed under same terms and
conditions as FTimes.

=cut
