=head1 NAME

B<FTimesSrm> - Selectively remove enumerated files.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<ftimes-srm> B<[OPTION [...]]> -- B<{-|snapshot} [snapshot [...]]>

B<ftimes-srm> B<{-v|--version}>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<FTimesSrm> utility reads the contents of stdin and/or one or
more FTimes snapshots and selectively removes the files enumerated
within each.  Removal constraints are controlled through the
B<FieldMask>, which has a default value of 'none+size+md5+sha1'.

=head1 MODES OF OPERATION

The modes of operation described in this section are mutually
exclusive.  In other words, only one mode may be specified per
invocation.

=over 5

=item B<{-|snapshot} [snapshot [...]]>

Read the contents of one or more snapshots and selectively remove
enumerated files using the attributes specified in the B<FieldMask>
as constraints.

=item B<{-v|--version}>

Display version information and exit.

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 5

=item B<{-1|--log-to-stdout}>

Log errors to stdout rather than stderr, which is the default.

=item B<{-m|--mask} {all|none}[{+|-}<field>[...]]>

The B<FieldMask> specifies the attributes to be used in determining
whether or not a given file is removed.  If the current set of
attributes matches those specified in a given snapshot, the file is
slated for removal.  Otherwise, the file's removal is abandoned.  A
mask of 'none' causes files to be removed based on their name alone.
The following fields are supported:

    md5
    sha1
    sha256
    size

=item B<{-n|--dry-run}>

Perform a dry run.  Don't actually remove any files.  Rather,
generate output indicating what action(s) would be taken barring
any technical issues.

=back

=head1 RETURN VALUES

Upon successful completion, a value of B<0> (B<XER_OK>) is returned.
Otherwise, one of the following error codes is returned:

=over 5

=item *

B<1 => B<XER_Usage>

=item *

B<2 => B<XER_Abort>

=item *

B<3 => B<XER_BootStrap>

=item *

B<4 => B<XER_ProcessArguments>

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=head2 Example 1. Normal Operation

This example demonstrates how to remove files whose attributes match
values specified in an B<FTimes> snapshot called 'snapshot.map'.

Assume that the snapshot contains the following records:

    --- snapshot.map ---
    name|size|md5|sha1
    "/tmp/foo"|5|aba0f47afec9a5d52812ace09d226641|74a39bb962c5f40b0c6ab1db1704405d33814b50
    "/tmp/bar"|5|fe3fe3cd810a420a0d0be3be535d1c3e|d3e67cc9b12f89555a62e56149ca5db3fa80fb8a
    "/tmp/com"|5|1cf92b09e67425473e9432657cca85bf|fb044d1d79299e9ff2dbf78dabc3e811cd49dd3a
    --- snapshot.map ---

Suppose you wish to remove all files whose size and MD5 hash match
the values found in the snapshot.  The commands presented below
provide equivalent ways to achieve that end goal:

    ftimes-srm -m none+size+md5 snapshot.map
or
    ftimes-srm -m all-hashes+md5 snapshot.map
or
    ftimes-srm -m all-sha1-sha256 snapshot.map
or
    ftimes-xformer -f snapshot.map -L name,size,md5 | ftimes-srm -m none+size+md5 -

If you wanted to take a more cautious approach, you could try a
dry run simply by adding the B<--dry-run> (or B<-n>) option like so:

    ftimes-srm -m none+size+md5 --dry-run snapshot.map

=head1 SEE ALSO

ftimes(1), ftimes-xformer(1), rm(1)

=head1 AUTHOR

Klayton Monroe

=head1 HISTORY

This utility was initially written to selectively remove a large
number of old files spread out over multiple shares/directories.

This utility first appeared in B<FTimes> 3.12.0.

