=pod

=head1 NAME

ftimes-sizimus - Tally bytes based on the size attribute.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<ftimes-sizimus> B<[-v]> B<[-d delimiter]> B<[-i count]> B<[-l field[,field[,...]]]> B<[-M pattern]> B<[-m pattern-file]> B<[-o option[,option[,...]]]> B<[-t template]> B<-f {file|-}>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This utility takes FTimes map data and tallies bytes for regular files
based on the size attribute.  The input format can vary so long as it
contains at least the 'name', 'mode', and 'size' fields.  The most
common input formats are produced by ftimes(1) and tarmap(1).  If the
input does not contain the 'mode' field, you will need to specify the
'NoMode' option to prevent a fatal error.  The reason for this is that
directories and special files should generally be ignored when sizing
map data.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-d delimiter>

Specifies the input field delimiter.  Valid delimiters include the
following characters: tab ('\t'), space (' '), comma (','), colon
(':'), semi-colon (';'), equal ('='), and pipe ('|').  The default
delimiter is a pipe.  Note that parse errors are likely to occur if
the specified delimiter appears in any of the field values.

=item B<-f {file|-}>

Specifies the name of the input file. A value of '-' will cause the
program to read from stdin.

=item B<[-i count]>

Specifies the number of leading input lines to ignore.

=item B<-l field,[field[,...]]>

Specifies the list of valid input fields.  This option is only needed
in cases where the input contains unknown fields.

=item B<-o option,[option[,...]]>

Specifies the list of options to apply.  Currently the following
options are supported:

=over 4

=item BeQuiet

Don't print warning messages.

=item DeriveHeader

Construct an artificial header from the list of input fields specified
in the B<-l> command line argument.  This option is useful in cases
where the input file does not contain its own header.  The artificial
header is constructed by joining the input fields (in the order they
were specified).

=item NoHeader

Don't print an output header.

=item NoMode

Allow processing to continue even if the input has no 'mode' field.

=back

=item B<-M pattern>

Specifies a pattern that is to be applied to the input records.  Any
records not matched by the pattern will be discarded.  Use the B<-v>
option to invert the sense of the match.

=item B<-m pattern-file>

Specifies a file containing zero or more patterns, one per line, that
are to be applied to the input records.  Any records not matched by
the pattern will be discarded.  Use the B<-v> option to invert the
sense of the match.

=item B<-t template>

Specifies a template for an alternate output format.  All occurrences
of '\n', '\r', or '\t' will be converted to newline, carriage return,
and tab, respectively.  The value '%%' will be converted to '%'.

The following tokens may be used to create a custom template:
%bytes, %KB, %MB, %GB, %TB, and %files.

=item B<-v>

Invert the sense of pattern matching -- similar to the way that
egrep(1) works.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Klayton Monroe

=head1 SEE ALSO

ftimes(1) and tarmap(1)

=head1 HISTORY

This utility was initially written to assist in sizing calculations in
a case where we needed to pull a lot of files from a number of servers
in a production environment.

This utility first appeared in FTimes 3.9.0.

=head1 LICENSE

All documentation and code are distributed under same terms and
conditions as FTimes.

=cut
