=pod

=head1 NAME

ftimes-grabber - Parse FTimes output, grab files, and zip them up

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<ftimes-grabber> B<[-b bytes]> B<[-c count]> B<[-e exclude]> B<[-i include]> B<[-o option[,option[,...]]]> B<-f {file|-}> B<-z {zip|-}>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This utility reads FTimes map or dig data, conditionally filters
records based on user-specified include/exclude patterns, and creates
a list of files that are subsequently added to a ZIP archive.

Pattern filtering (includes/excludes) occurs only when a pattern file
has been specified.  Include filters are applied first, and then,
exclude filters are applied.  Once pattern filtering is complete, byte
and file count limits are checked/applied (in that order).

Only files are archived by this utility -- all directories and special
files (e.g., symbolic links) are ignored.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-b bytes>

Specifies the maximum number of uncompressed bytes to put in the ZIP
archive.  Once this limit has been reached, all remaining matches, if
any, will be skipped.

=item B<-c files>

Specifies the maximum number of files to put in the ZIP archive.  Once
this limit has been reached, all remaining matches, if any, will be
skipped.

=item B<-e exclude>

Specifies a file containing zero or more regular expressions, one per
line, that are to be applied to the 'name' field after it has been
deneutered and dequoted.  Files that match any exclude pattern will
not be added to the ZIP archive.

=item B<-f {file|-}>

Specifies the name of the input file.  A value of '-' will cause the
program to read from stdin.

=item B<-i include>

Specifies a file containing zero or more regular expressions, one per
line, that are to be applied to the 'name' field after it has been
deneutered and dequoted.  Files that match any include pattern will be
added to the ZIP archive unless they are subsequently matched by an
exclude pattern.  If no include patterns are specified, all files are
implicitly included.

=item B<-o option,[option[,...]]>

Specifies the list of options to apply.  Currently, the following
options are supported:

=over 4

=item BeQuiet

Don't list the files being added or skipped.

=item DryRun

Process the FTimes data, but do not create the ZIP archive.  Instead,
simply report the number of files and uncompressed bytes the archive
would contain.

=item EnableZipErrorHandler

Enable the error handler that comes with Archive::Zip.  This provides
additional information that may be useful for debugging purposes.

=item StopShort

Terminate the filtering process as soon as the maximum number of files
or bytes is reached, and proceed directly to ZIP archive creation.

=back

=item B<-z zip>

Specifies the name of the ZIP archive to create.  A value of '-' will
cause the program to write to stdout.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Klayton Monroe

=head1 SEE ALSO

ftimes(1)

=head1 LICENSE

All documentation and code are distributed under same terms and
conditions as FTimes.

=cut
