=pod

=head1 NAME

ftimes-bimvl - Take a snapshot, compare it to a baseline, and log the changes.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<ftimes-bimvl> B<[-d work-dir]> B<[-f config-file]> B<[-H ftimes-home]> B<[-i ignore-file]> B<[-m mask]> B<[-o option[,option[,...]]]> B<[-p priority]> B<[-s server[:port]]> B<[-t tag]> B<include [include ...]>

B<ftimes-bimvl> B<[-d work-dir]> B<[-H ftimes-home]> B<[-i ignore-file]> B<[-m mask]> B<[-o option[,option[,...]]]> B<[-p priority]> B<[-s server[:port]]> B<[-t tag]> -f config-file B<[include ...]>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This utility creates an FTimes snapshot of a specified set of files
and/or directories, compares that snapshot to a previously captured
baseline, and sends log messages to a specified syslog server for each
object that is changed, missing, or new.  If no baseline exists, one
will be created, and no comparisons will be made until the next
invocation of the utility.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-d work-dir>

Specifies a work directory that will be used to store the baseline,
snapshot, and compare files during runs.  If this directory does not
exist, it will be created during runtime.  The default location is
'C:\Program Files\FTimes\out' and '/usr/local/ftimes/out' for WINX
and UNIX platforms, respectively.

=item B<-f config-file>

Specifies a config file that contains any of the various ftimes(1)
controls (one per line) that are valid for map mode.  Note that this
option is required when no includes are specified on the command line,
and in that case, the desired includes must be specified within the
associated config file.

=item B<-H ftimes-home>

Specifies the location of FTimes components on the client system.  The
default value is 'C:\Program Files\FTimes' and '/usr/local/ftimes' for
WINX and UNIX platforms, respectively.

=item B<-i ignore-file>

Specifies a file containing zero or more patterns, one per line, that
are to be applied to the compare output.  All matched records will be
discarded, and no syslog message will be generated.

=item B<-m mask>

FTimes fieldmask to use.

=item B<-o option,[option[,...]]>

Specifies the list of options to apply.  Currently, the following
options are supported:

=over 4

=item ForceBuild

This is a pass-through option. For details, refer to the
ftimes-cmp2diff(1) documentation.

=item ForceClean

This is a pass-through option. For details, refer to the
ftimes-cmp2diff(1) documentation.

=item GidDecode

This is a pass-through option. For details, refer to the
ftimes-cmp2diff(1) documentation.

=item LogViaUdpSocket

Specifies that a direct UDP socket connection should be used for
sending log messages.  By default, the Sys::Syslog Perl module is
used, which interfaces directly with the system logger.

=item ModeDecode

This is a pass-through option. For details, refer to the
ftimes-cmp2diff(1) documentation.

=item NoDecode

This is a pass-through option. For details, refer to the
ftimes-cmp2diff(1) documentation.

=item NoSysLog

Specifies that no log messages are to be logged whatsoever (i.e.,
either via the system logger or a direct UDP socket connection).  If
this option is enabled, output will be directed to stdout.

=item UidDecode

This is a pass-through option. For details, refer to the
ftimes-cmp2diff(1) documentation.

=item UseBigIntegers

This is a pass-through option. For details, refer to the
ftimes-cmp2diff(1) documentation.

=item UseCmp2Diff

Specifies that ftimes-cmp2diff, rather than ftimes, is to be used for
comparing snapshots.

=back

=item B<-p priority>

Specifies the syslog facility and level to use for syslog messages.
The format is facility.level.  Valid values can be found in the
logger(1) man page.

=item B<-s server[:port]>

Specifies the hostname (or IP address) and port of syslog server.  The
default value is 127.0.0.1:514.

=item B<-t tag>

Specifies the string that will be tagged to every syslog message.  The
default tag is the name of this utility.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Klayton Monroe and Jason Smith

=head1 SEE ALSO

ftimes(1), ftimes-cmp2diff(1)

=head1 LICENSE

All documentation and code are distributed under same terms and
conditions as B<FTimes>.

=cut
