=pod

=head1 NAME

ftimes-dig2dbi.pl - Preprocess FTimes dig data for MySQL DB import

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<ftimes-dig2dbi.pl> B<[-D {default|ignore|replace}]> B<[-d db]> B<[-h host]> B<[-m max-rows]> B<[-o option[,option[,...]]]> B<[-t table]> B<-f {file|-}>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This utility takes FTimes dig data as input, processes it, and
produces two output files having the extensions .sql and .dbi. The SQL
statements in the .sql file may be used to import the .dbi data into
MySQL -- dbi is short for DB Import. An extra field, joiner, is added
to the .dbi file. This field serves as the primary index -- either
alone or in conjunction with the hostname field. It can also be used
as a joining key to tie map and dig tables together.


=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-D {default|ignore|replace}>

Add the IGNORE or REPLACE keyword to the LOAD statement. The default
value is 'default', which means don't alter the LOAD statement.

=item B<-d db>

Specifies the name of the database to create/use. This value is passed
directly into the .sql file. The default value is 'ftimes'.

=item B<-f {file|-}>

Specifies the name of the input file. A value of '-' will cause the
program to read from stdin. If input is read from stdin, the output
files will be placed in the current directory and have a basename of
'stdin'.

=item B<-h host>

Specifies the name of the host to bind to the imported data. If
specified, an additional field, hostname, is inserted in the .dbi file
and filled with the appropriate value. By default, the hostname field
is not used.

=item B<-m max-rows>

Limits the number of records that may be inserted into the specified
database. This value is passed directly into the .sql file as
MAX_ROWS.

=item B<-o option,[option[,...]]>

Specifies the list of options to apply.  Currently, the following
options are supported:

=over 4

=item ForceWrite

Force existing .sql and .dbi files to be truncated on open.

=item LocalInFile

Add the LOCAL keyword to the LOAD statement. When this keyword is
specified, the .dbi file is read by the local MySQL client and sent to
the remote MySQL server.

=item UseMergeTables

Append the hostname, if defined, as a suffix on the table name. This
allows data for each unique host to be loaded into separate tables
that can be linked together using MySQL MERGE tables.

=back

=item B<-t table>

Specifies the name of the table to create/use. This value is passed
directly into the .sql file. The default value is 'dig'.

=back

=head1 CAVEATS

Don't mix host and non host .dbi files as they use different schemas.

=head1 AUTHOR

Klayton Monroe

=head1 SEE ALSO

ftimes(1)

=head1 LICENSE

All documentation and code are distributed under same terms and
conditions as FTimes.

=cut
