=pod

=head1 NAME

ftimes-dbm-dump - Enumerate a Berkeley database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<ftimes-dbm-dump> B<[-M pattern]> B<[-m pattern-file]> B<[-o option[,option[,...]]]> B<-d db>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This utility enumerates a Berkeley database that has been created with
ftimes-dbm-make(1).  Output is written to stdout and has the following
format:

    key|value

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-d db>

Specifies the name of the database to dump.

=item B<-M>

Specifies a pattern that is to be applied to the values.  The output
records for any values not matched by the pattern will be discarded.
Use the B<InvertMatch> option to invert the sense of the match.

=item B<-m>

Specifies a file containing zero or more patterns, one per line, that
are to be applied to the values.  The output records for any values
matched by the patterns will be discarded.  Use the B<InvertMatch>
option to invert the sense of the match.  Use the B<MatchKeys> option
to apply pattern matching to keys instead of values.

=item B<-o option,[option[,...]]>

Specifies the list of options to apply.  Currently the following
options are supported:

=over 4

=item KeysOnly

Output keys only.  By default, both keys and values are written to
stdout.

=item MatchKeys

Apply pattern matching to keys instead of values.

=item InvertMatch

Invert the sense of pattern matching.

=item ReverseFields

Output keys and values in the reverse order (i.e., value|key).  This
option is silently ignored if the B<KeysOnly> option has been set.

=back

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Klayton Monroe

=head1 SEE ALSO

ftimes-dbm-dump(1), ftimes-dbm-make(1)

=head1 LICENSE

All documentation and code are distributed under same terms and
conditions as FTimes.

=cut
