=pod

=head1 NAME

hashdig-weed.pl - Delete hashes from a HashDig database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<hashdig-weed.pl> B<[-q]> B<[-a hash-type]> B<-d db> B<-f {file|-}>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This utility deletes specified hashes from a HashDig database that has
been created with hashdig-make(1). Input is expected to be plain text
with one hash per line. For MD5 hash DBs, each line must match the
following regular expression:

    ^[0-9a-fA-F]{32}$

For SHA1 hash DBs, each line must match the following regular
expression:

    ^[0-9a-fA-F]{40}$

For SHA256 hash DBs, each line must match the following regular
expression:

    ^[0-9a-fA-F]{64}$

Input that does not match the required expression will cause the
program to generate an error message.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-a hash-type>

Specifies the type of hashes that are to be deleted. Currently, the
following hash types (or algorithms) are supported: 'MD5', 'SHA1', and
'SHA256'. The default hash type is that specified by the HASH_TYPE
environment variable or 'MD5' if HASH_TYPE is not set. The value for
this option is not case sensitive.

=item B<-d db>

Specifies the name of the database to weed.

=item B<-f {file|-}>

Specifies the name of the input file. A value of '-' will cause the
program to read from stdin.

=item B<-q>

Don't report errors (i.e., be quiet) while processing input.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Klayton Monroe

=head1 SEE ALSO

hashdig-dump(1), hashdig-make(1)

=head1 LICENSE

All documentation and code are distributed under same terms and
conditions as FTimes.

=cut
