=pod

=head1 NAME

hashdig-find.pl - Find one or more hashes in a HashDig database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<hashdig-find.pl> B<[-qr]> B<[-a hash-type]> B<[-c {A|K|U}]> B<-d db> B<hash [hash ...]>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This utility searches for a list of hashes from a HashDig database
that has been created with hashdig-make(1). MD5 hashes must match the
following regular expression:

    ^[0-9a-fA-F]{32}$

SHA1 hashes, must match the following regular expression:

    ^[0-9a-fA-F]{40}$

SHA256 hashes, must match the following regular expression:

    ^[0-9a-fA-F]{64}$

Input that does not match the required expression will cause the
program to generate an error message, which will be conditionally
printed based on whether or not the B<-q> flag has been set.

The output produced by this utility has the following format:

    hash|category|db

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-a hash-type>

Specifies the type of hashes that are to be sought. Currently, the
following hash types (or algorithms) are supported: 'MD5', 'SHA1', and
'SHA256'. The default hash type is that specified by the HASH_TYPE
environment variable or 'MD5' if HASH_TYPE is not set. The value for
this option is not case sensitive.

=item B<-c category>

Specifies the hash category, {A|K|U}, to enumerate. Currently, the
following categories are supported: all (A), known (K), and unknown
(U). The default category is all.

=item B<-d db>

Specifies the name of the database to search.

=item B<-q>

Don't report errors (i.e., be quiet) while processing input.

=item B<-r>

Reverse the meaning of the B<db> and B<hash> arguments. This option
allows you to search for a single hash in one or more HashDig
databases.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Klayton Monroe

=head1 SEE ALSO

hashdig-dump(1), hashdig-make(1)

=head1 LICENSE

All documentation and code are distributed under same terms and
conditions as FTimes.

=cut
