=pod

=head1 NAME

hashdig-bind.pl - Bind resolved hashes to filenames

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<hashdig-bind.pl> B<[-qr]> B<[-a hash-type]> B<[-d delimiter]> B<[-h hash-field]> B<[-n name-field]> B<-t file-type> B<-f {hashdig-file|-}> B<file [file ...]>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This utility binds resolved hashes to filenames. The source of
resolved hashes is a HashDig file or stdin, and the source of
filenames is one or more subject files. Depending on the type of
subject files (see B<-t> option), one or more of the following
output files will be created in the current working directory:
(a)ll, (d)irectory, (i)ndeterminate, (k)nown, symbolic (l)ink,
(s)pecial, and (u)nknown. These files will have the following
format:

    <filename>.bound.{a|d|i|k|l|s|u}

The 'all' file is the sum of the other output files.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-a hash-type>

Specifies the type of hashes that are to be bound. Currently, the
following hash types (or algorithms) are supported: 'MD5', 'SHA1', and
'SHA256'. The default hash type is that specified by the HASH_TYPE
environment variable or 'MD5' if HASH_TYPE is not set. The value for
this option is not case sensitive.

=item B<-d delimiter>

Specifies the input field delimiter. This option is ignored unless
used in conjunction with the GENERIC data type. Valid delimiters
include the following characters: tab '\t', space ' ', comma ',',
semi-colon ';', and pipe '|'. The default delimiter is a pipe. Note
that parse errors are likely to occur if the specified delimiter
appears in any of the field values.

=item B<-h hash-field>

Specifies the name of the field that contains the hash value. This
option is ignored unless used in conjunction with the GENERIC data
type. The default value for this option is "hash".

=item B<-n name-field>

Specifies the name of the field that contains the name value. This
option is ignored unless used in conjunction with the GENERIC data
type. The default value for this option is "name".

=item B<-f {hashdig-file|-}>

Specifies the name of a HashDig file to use as the source of hashes.
A value of '-' will cause the program to read from stdin. HashDig
files have the following format:

    hash|category

=item B<-q>

Don't report errors (i.e., be quiet) while processing files.

=item B<-r>

Accept HashDig records in reverse format (i.e., category|hash).

=item B<-t file-type>

Specifies the type of subject files that are to be processed. All
files processed in a given invocation must be of the same type.
Currently, the following types are supported: FTIMES, FTK, GENERIC,
KG|KNOWNGOODS, MD5, MD5DEEP, MD5SUM, OPENSSL, SHA1, SHA1DEEP, SHA1SUM,
SHA256, SHA256DEEP, and SHA256SUM. The value for this option is not
case sensitive.

=back

=head1 CAVEATS

This utility attempts to load all hash/category information into a
pair associative arrays. When all available memory has been exhausted,
Perl will probably force the script to abort. In extreme cases,
this can produce a core file.

=head1 AUTHOR

Klayton Monroe

=head1 SEE ALSO

ftimes(1), hashdig-dump(1), hashdig-harvest(1), hashdig-harvest-sunsolve(1), md5(1), md5sum(1), md5deep(1), openssl(1)

=head1 LICENSE

All documentation and code are distributed under same terms and
conditions as FTimes.

=cut
