=pod

=head1 NAME

hashdig-harvest.pl - Harvest hashes from a one or more input files

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<hashdig-harvest.pl> B<[-a hash-type]> B<[-c {K|U}]> B<[-d delimiter]> B<[-h hash-field]> B<[-q]> B<[-S sort-buffer-size]> B<[-s sort-utility]> B<[-T sort-temp-dir]> B<-t file-type> B<-o {file|-}> B<file [file ...]>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This utility extracts hashes of the specified B<hash-type> from one or
more input files having the specified B<file-type>, tags them as known
or unknown (see B<-c>), and writes them to an output file (see B<-o>)
as a sorted list of hash/category pairs.  The resulting output file
(a.k.a. hashdig or hd file) will have the following format:

    hash|category

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-a hash-type>

Specifies the type of hashes that are to be harvested.  Currently, the
following hash types (or algorithms) are supported: 'MD5', 'SHA1', and
'SHA256'.  The default hash type is that specified by the HASH_TYPE
environment variable or 'MD5' if HASH_TYPE is not set.  The value for
this option is not case sensitive.

=item B<-c category>

Specifies the category that is to be assigned to each hash.
Currently, the following categories are supported: known (indicated by
a 'K') and unknown (indicated by a 'U').  The value for this option is
not case sensitive, and the default category is unknown (i.e., 'U').

=item B<-d delimiter>

Specifies the input field delimiter.  This option is ignored unless
used in conjunction with the 'GENERIC' data type.  Valid delimiters
include the following characters: tab '\t', space ' ', comma ',',
semi-colon ';', and pipe '|'.  The default delimiter is a pipe.  Note
that parse errors are likely to occur if the specified delimiter
appears in any of the field values.

=item B<-h hash-field>

Specifies the name of the field that contains the hash value.  This
option is ignored unless used in conjunction with the 'GENERIC' data
type.  The default value for this option is 'hash'.

=item B<-o {file|-}>

Specifies the name of the output file.  A value of '-' will cause the
program to write to stdout.

=item B<-q>

Don't report errors (i.e., be quiet) while processing files.

=item B<-S sort-buffer-size>

Specifies the buffer size the sort utility should use for its main
memory buffer.  This option is not passed to the sort utility unless
specified as a command line argument.  Refer to the sort(1) man page
for details regarding this argument and its syntax.

=item B<-s sort-utility>

Specifies the name of an alternate sort utility.  If this argument is
specified as a relative path, the current PATH will be used to locate
the executable.  Note that this script was designed to work with GNU
sort(1).  Therefore, any alternate sort utility specified must support
the C<-o>, C<-S>, C<-T> and C<-u> options.

=item B<-T sort-temp-dir>

Specifies the directory the sort utility should use as a temporary
work area.  The default directory is that specified by the TMPDIR
environment variable or /tmp if that variable is not set.

=item B<-t file-type>

Specifies the type of input file that will be processed.  Note that
all files processed in a single invocation must be of the same type.
Currently, the following types are supported: 'FTIMES', 'FTK',
'GENERIC', 'HK' or 'HASHKEEPER', 'KG' or 'KNOWNGOODS', 'MD5',
'MD5DEEP', 'MD5SUM', 'NSRL1', 'NSRL2', 'OPENSSL', 'PLAIN', 'RPM',
'SHA1', 'SHA1DEEP', 'SHA1SUM', 'SHA256', 'SHA256DEEP', and
'SHA256SUM'.  The value for this option is not case sensitive.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Klayton Monroe

=head1 SEE ALSO

ftimes(1), hashdig-make(1), md5(1), md5sum(1), md5deep(1), openssl(1), rpm(8), sha1(1), sha1sum(1), sha1deep(1), sort(1)

=head1 LICENSE

All documentation and code are distributed under same terms and
conditions as FTimes.

=cut
