=pod

=head1 NAME

hashdig-harvest-sunsolve.pl - Harvest hashes from a directory of sunsolve output

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<hashdig-harvest-sunsolve.pl> B<[-c {A|K|U}]> B<[-q]> B<[-s file]> B<[-T dir]> B<-o {file|-}> B<dir>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This utility extracts MD5 hashes from a directory of files created
by hashdig-resolve-sunsolve(1), filters them by category (see B<-c>),
and writes the results to the specified output file (see B<-o>).
Output is a sorted list of hash/category pairs having the following
format:

    hash|category

Input files located in B<dir> are expected to contain HTML and have
names that match the following regular expression:

    ^hashdig-sunsolve.\d+$

Filenames that do not match this expression are silently ignored.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-c category>

Specifies the hash category, {A|K|U}, that is to be harvested.
Currently, the following categories are supported: all (A), known
(K), and unknown (U). The default category is known. Output returned
by sunsolve specifies the number of times a given hash matched
something in Sun's Solaris Fingerprint Database. Thus, if the number
of matches is zero, the hash is tagged as unknown. Otherwise, it
is tagged as known.

=item B<-o {file|-}>

Specifies the name of the output file. A value of '-' will cause
the program to write to stdout.

=item B<-q>

Don't report errors (i.e., be quiet) while processing files.

=item B<-s file>

Specifies the name of an alternate sort utility. Relative paths are
affected by your PATH envrionment variable. Alternate sort utilities
must support the C<-o>, C<-T> and C<-u> options. This program was
designed to work with GNU sort.

=item B<-T dir>

Specifies the directory sort should use as a temporary work area.
The default directory is that specified by the TMPDIR environment
variable, or /tmp if TMPDIR is not set.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Klayton Monroe

=head1 SEE ALSO

hashdig-harvest(1), hashdig-make(1), hashdig-resolve-sunsolve(1)

=head1 LICENSE

All documentation and code are distributed under same terms and
conditions as FTimes.

=cut
