=head1 NAME

B<TarMap> - Map the contents of a tar archive

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<tarmap> B<{-m|--map}> B<{-f|--file}> B<file|->

B<tarmap> B<{-v|--version}>

Note: Command line arguments are position dependent, and argument
snuggling (e.g., '-mf') is not supported.  All arguments and their
values (if any) must be separated by whitespace.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<TarMap> is a utility for mapping the files in a tar archive without
having to unpack and write them to disk first.  The output produced by
this utility is roughly equivalent to FTimes output produced with the
following FieldMask:

    none+size+md5+sha1

=head1 MODES OF OPERATION

The modes of operation described in this section are mutually
exclusive.  In other words, only one mode may be specified per
invocation.

=over 5

=item B<{-m|--map}> B<{-f|--file}> B<file|->

Map the contents of the specified B<file>.

=item B<{-v|--version}>

Display version information and exit.

=back

=head1 RETURN VALUES

Upon successful completion, a value of B<0> (B<XER_OK>) is returned.
Otherwise, one of the following error codes is returned:

=over 5

=item *

B<1 => B<XER_Usage>

=item *

B<2 => B<XER_BootStrap>

=item *

B<3 => B<XER_ProcessArguments>

=item *

B<4 => B<XER_WorkHorse>

=item *

B<5 => B<XER_RunMode>

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=head2 Example 1. Map the contents of a normal tar ball

This example demonstrates how to map the contents of a normal tar ball
called test.tar.

    tarmap -m -f test.tar

=head2 Example 2. Map the contents of a compress'd tar ball

This example demonstrates how to map the contents of a compress'd tar
ball called test.tar.Z.

    uncompress -c test.tar.Z | tarmap -m -f -

=head2 Example 3. Map the contents of a gzip'd tar ball

This example demonstrates how to map the contents of a gzip'd tar ball
called test.tar.gz.

    gunzip -c test.tar.gz | tarmap -m -f -

=head2 Example 4. Map the contents of a bzip2'd tar ball

This example demonstrates how to map the contents of a bzip2'd tar
ball called test.tar.bz2.

    bunzip -c test.tar.bz2 | tarmap -m -f -

=head2 Example 5. Compare the contents of two tar balls

This example demonstrates how to use tarmap and ftimes to compare the
contents of two tar balls called test.old.tgz and test.new.tgz.

    gunzip -c test.old.tgz | tarmap -m -f - > test.old.map
    gunzip -c test.new.tgz | tarmap -m -f - > test.new.map
    ftimes --compare all test.old.map test.new.map

=head1 SEE ALSO

bunzip2(1), ftimes(1), gunzip(1), uncompress(1)

=head1 AUTHOR

Klayton Monroe

=head1 HISTORY

This utility was initially written to help determine if any files on a
system with no prior baseline had been changed.  While the system in
question didn't have a baseline, it did have several tar ball backups.
The main issue was that the backups were so large that extracting them
to temporary storage first would have been impractical.  This utility,
allowed us to avoid that issue by directly processing an uncompressed
stream of the backup (e.g., via gunzip or bunzip2).

This utility first appeared in B<FTimes> 3.8.0.

