=pod

=head1 NAME

zipmap - Map the contents of a ZIP archive.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<zipmap> B<[-m mask]> B<[-o option[,option[,...]]]> B<-f {file|-}>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<ZipMap> is a utility for mapping the files in a ZIP archive without
having to unpack and write them to disk first.  The output produced by
this utility is roughly equivalent to FTimes output produced with the
following FieldMask:

    none+size+md5+sha1

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-f {file|-}>

Specifies the name of the input file.

=item B<-m mask>

The field mask specifies which attributes to collect/compute while
processing the archive.  The field mask value must comply with the
following case-insensitive syntax:

    ALL[<+|-><field>[...]]

or

    NONE<+|-><field>[<+|-><field>[...]]

The following fields may be specified:

    size   - Member size in bytes
    md5    - Member MD5 digest
    sha1   - Member SHA1 digest

In addition to the standard fields, the following group fields may be
specified:

    hashes - Compute all supported digests

The default field mask is 'all'.

=item B<-o option,[option[,...]]>

Specifies the list of options to apply.  Currently, the following
options are supported:

=over 4

=item GrabberRanOnWindows

Member names for archives created on WINX platforms using the
ftimes-grabber(1) are stored in a UNIX format.  This flag indicates
that those names should be converted back to their original format.

=back

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=head2 Example 1. Map the contents of a ZIP archive

This example demonstrates how to map the contents of a ZIP archive
called 'test.zip'.

    zipmap -f test.zip

If you're only interested in the size and MD5 attributes, you can
specify a field mask to limit the output as follows:

    zipmap -m none+size+md5 -f test.zip

=head2 Example 2. Compare the contents of two ZIP archives

This example demonstrates how to use this utility and ftimes(1) to
compare the contents of two ZIP archives called 'test.old.zip' and
'test.new.zip'.

    zipmap -f test.old.zip > test.old.map
    zipmap -f test.new.zip > test.new.map
    ftimes --compare all test.old.map test.new.map -l 6

=head1 AUTHORS

Klayton Monroe and Jason Smith

=head1 SEE ALSO

ftimes(1), ftimes-grabber(1), tarmap(1), and unzip(1)

=head1 HISTORY

This utility was initially written to assist in validating the
contents of ZIP archives created by ftimes-grabber(1).

This utility first appeared in FTimes 3.9.0.

=head1 LICENSE

All documentation and code are distributed under same terms and
conditions as FTimes.

=cut
