=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<FTimes> is a system baselining and evidence collection tool.
The primary purpose of B<FTimes> is to gather and/or develop
information about specified directories and files in a manner
conducive to intrusion analysis.

B<FTimes> is a lightweight tool in the sense that it doesn't need
to be "installed" on a given system to work on that system, it is
small enough to fit on a single floppy, and it provides only a
command line interface.

Preserving records of all activity that occurs during a snapshot
is important for intrusion analysis and evidence admissibility.
For this reason, B<FTimes> was designed to log four types of
information: configuration settings, progress indicators, metrics,
and errors.  Output produced by B<FTimes> is delimited text, and
therefore, is easily assimilated by a wide variety of existing
tools.

B<FTimes> basically implements two general capabilities: file
topography and string search.  File topography is the process of
mapping key attributes of directories and files on a given file
system.  String search is the process of digging through directories
and files on a given file system while looking for a specific
sequence of bytes.  Respectively, these capabilities are referred
to as map mode and dig mode.

B<FTimes> supports two operating environments: workbench and
client-server.  In the workbench environment, the operator uses
B<FTimes> to do things such as examine evidence (e.g., a disk image
or files from a compromised system), analyze snapshots for change,
search for files that have specific attributes, verify file integrity,
and so on.  In the client-server environment, the focus shifts from
what the operator can do locally to how the operator can efficiently
monitor, manage, and aggregate snapshot data for many hosts.  In
the client-server environment, the primary goal is to move collected
data from the host to a centralized system, known as an Integrity
Server, in a secure and authenticated fashion.  An Integrity Server
is a hardened system that has been configured to handle B<FTimes>
GET, PING, and PUT HTTP/S requests.

The B<FTimes> distribution contains a script called nph-ftimes.cgi
that may be used in conjunction with a Web server to implement a
public Integrity Server interface.  Deeper topics such as the
construction and internal mechanics of an Integrity Server are not
addressed in this document.

B<FTimes> provides several modes of operation that either implement
its basic capabilities or support them in some way.  These modes
are described in the MODES OF OPERATION section of this document
and are outlined here:

=over 5

=item *

cfgtest - check config file syntax for a given file and mode

=item *

compare - compare two map snapshots to detect change

=item *

decode - decode a compressed map snapshot

=item *

dig - search for strings in files using a specified configuration

=item *

digauto - search for strings in files using a default configuration

=item *

get - download a dig or map config file from an Integrity Server

=item *

mad - map and dig using a specified configuration

=item *

map - collect directory and file attributes using a specified configuration

=item *

mapauto - collect directory and file attributes using a default configuration

=item *

version - display version information and exit

=back

B<FTimes> also has many controls which dictate how it will execute.
Some modes support very few controls while others support quite
a few.  The following table summarizes what controls apply to each
mode of operation.  An 'R', 'O', or 'C' indicates that the given
control applies to the selected mode and whether it's required,
optional, or conditionally required, respectively.

                       =======   MODES   =======
                       c  c  d  d  g  m  m  m  v
                       f  o  i  i  e  a  a  a  e
                       g  m  g  g  t  d  p  p  r
                       t  p  a     m     a     s
                       e  a  u     o     u     i
                       s  r  t     d     t     o
                       t  e  o     e     o     n
   ======   CONTROL    =========================
   AnalyzeBlockSize    .  .  .  O  .  O  .  O  .
   AnalyzeByteCount    .  .  .  O  .  O  .  O  .
   AnalyzeCarrySize    .  .  .  O  .  O  .  .  .
   AnalyzeDeviceFiles  .  .  .  O  .  O  .  O  .
   AnalyzeMaxDepth     .  .  .  O  .  O  .  O  .
   AnalyzeMaxDps       .  .  .  O  .  O  .  O  .
   AnalyzeRemoteFiles  .  .  .  O  .  O  .  O  .
   AnalyzeStartOffset  .  .  .  O  .  O  .  O  .
   AnalyzeStepSize     .  .  .  O  .  O  .  .  .
   BaseName            .  .  .  R  R  R  .  R  .
   BaseNameSuffix      .  .  .  O  .  O  .  O  .
   Compress            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  O  .
   DigString           .  .  C  C  .  C  .  .  .
   DigStringNoCase     .  .  C  C  .  C  .  .  .
   DigStringNormal     .  .  C  C  .  C  .  .  .
   DigStringRegExp     .  .  C  C  .  C  .  .  .
   DigStringXMagic     .  .  C  C  .  C  .  .  .
   EnableRecursion     .  .  .  O  .  O  .  O  .
   Exclude             .  .  .  O  .  O  .  O  .
   ExcludeFilter       .  .  .  O  .  O  .  O  .
   ExcludeFilterMd5    .  .  .  .  .  O  .  O  .
   ExcludeFilterSha1   .  .  .  .  .  O  .  O  .
   ExcludeFilterSha256 .  .  .  .  .  O  .  O  .
   ExcludesMustExist   .  .  .  O  .  O  .  O  .
   FieldMask           .  R  .  .  .  R  R  R  .
   FileHook            .  .  .  O  .  O  .  O  .
   FileSizeLimit       .  .  .  O  .  O  .  O  .
   GetAndExec          .  .  .  .  O  .  .  .  .
   GetFileName         .  .  .  .  R  .  .  .  .
   HashDirectories     .  .  .  .  .  O  .  O  .
   HashSymbolicLinks   .  .  .  .  .  O  .  O  .
   Import              .  .  .  O  O  O  .  O  .
   Include             .  .  .  O  .  O  .  O  .
   IncludeFilter       .  .  .  O  .  O  .  O  .
   IncludeFilterMd5    .  .  .  .  .  O  .  O  .
   IncludeFilterSha1   .  .  .  .  .  O  .  O  .
   IncludeFilterSha256 .  .  .  .  .  O  .  O  .
   IncludesMustExist   .  .  .  O  .  O  .  O  .
   LogDigStrings       .  .  .  O  .  O  .  .  .
   LogDir              .  .  .  O  .  O  .  O  .
   MagicFile           .  .  .  .  .  O  .  O  .
   MapRemoteFiles      .  .  .  O  .  O  .  O  .
   MatchLimit          .  .  .  O  .  O  .  .  .
   NewLine             .  .  .  O  .  O  .  O  .
   OutDir              .  .  .  R  .  R  .  R  .
   Priority            .  O  O  O  .  O  O  O  .
   RequirePrivilege    .  .  .  O  .  O  .  O  .
   RunType             .  .  .  O  .  O  .  O  .
   StrictControls      .  .  .  O  O  O  .  O  .
   SSLBundledCAsFile   .  .  .  C  C  C  .  C  .
   SSLExpectedPeerCN   .  .  .  C  C  C  .  C  .
   SSLMaxChainLength   .  .  .  O  O  O  .  O  .
   SSLPassPhrase       .  .  .  O  O  O  .  O  .
   SSLPrivateKeyFile   .  .  .  C  C  C  .  C  .
   SSLPublicCertFile   .  .  .  C  C  C  .  C  .
   SSLUseCertificate   .  .  .  O  O  O  .  O  .
   SSLVerifyPeerCert   .  .  .  O  O  O  .  O  .
   URLAuthType         .  .  .  O  O  O  .  O  .
   URLGetRequest       .  .  .  .  R  .  .  .  .
   URLGetURL           .  .  .  .  R  .  .  .  .
   URLPassword         .  .  .  O  O  O  .  O  .
   URLPutSnapshot      .  .  .  O  .  O  .  O  .
   URLPutURL           .  .  .  O  .  O  .  O  .
   URLUnlinkOutput     .  .  .  O  .  O  .  O  .
   URLUsername         .  .  .  O  O  O  .  O  .

