=head1 EXAMPLES

The following examples are intended to demonstrate different ways
of configuring and using B<FTimes>.  Any text encapsulated between
'--- XXX ---' delimiters represents a file's content.

=head2 Example 1. Using map mode to baseline and upload

This example demonstrates how to baseline a system and upload the
resulting snapshot to an Integrity Server.

The first thing that needs to be done is to obtain the necessary
upload information.  Assume that an Integrity Server has already
been configured to receive snapshots.  Also, assume that the
following information has been provided:

    URL = https://192.168.1.50:443/cgi-client/nph-ftimes.cgi
    Authentication Type = Basic
    Username/ClientID = S001_TEST_0001_0
    Password = password
    AllowedFieldMask = ALL-magic
    AllowedDataType = map
    Server Validates Client Certificates = N

Observe that remote server speaks HTTPS.  Therefore, an SSL enabled
version of B<FTimes> is needed.  To determine if B<FTimes> has SSL
support, run the following command:

    ftimes --version

If B<FTimes> has SSL support, the output will have the following format:

    ftimes X.X.X ssl

where X.X.X is a version number.

The next item to tackle is the creation of a suitable config file.
The following file contains the necessary directives to complete
this task.

    --- example1.cfg ---
    BaseName=S001_TEST_0001_0
    OutDir=.
    RunType=baseline
    FieldMask=ALL-magic
    URLPutSnapshot=Y
    URLPutURL=https://192.168.1.50:443/cgi-client/nph-ftimes.cgi
    URLAuthType=basic
    URLUsername=S001_TEST_0001_0
    URLPassword=password
    URLCreateConfig=Y
    Compress=Y
    --- example1.cfg ---

Note that there are no B<Include> directives.  This omission causes
B<FTimes> to map everything (i.e. the entire system).

Also, note that B<OutDir> has been set to the current directory
(i.e. '.').  This, while entirely legal, assumes that (1) '.' is
writeable and (2) there is enough disk space to hold all generated
output.

Compression was enabled to expedite data transfer, and B<URLCreateConfig>
was enabled to create an upload config file.  This would come in
handy if, for example, the upload fails.  Otherwise, it is not
necessary.

The last step is to run B<FTimes> and review the corresponding log
output to ensure that snapshot was uploaded successfully.

    ftimes --mapfull example1.cfg

=head2 Example 2. Using dig mode to search for strings

This example demonstrates how to to search files and directories
for a set of HEX/ASCII strings.

Given that the target file system is C</disk1>, and the list of
strings to to be sought are:

    String1 = /dev/ptyqa
    String2 = 0xda 0xbe
    String3 = 0x00 A 0x00 A 0x00 A 0x00 A

These strings are expressed as ASCII, HEX, and HEX/ASCII, respectively
(ignoring white space).  Assume that the required B<MatchLimit> is
three.  That is to say, no more than three matches per file of any
single string should be recorded.

The following config file contains those directives required to
search all files in /disk1.

    --- example2.cfg ---
    BaseName=digger
    OutDir=.
    MatchLimit=3
    DigString=/dev/ptyqa
    DigString=%da%be
    DigString=%00A%00A%00A%00A
    Include=/disk1
    --- example2.cfg ---

Observe that strings two and three are URL encoded.  Read the
B<DigString> control description for more details on URL encoding.

At this point B<FTimes> may be run as follows:

    ftimes --digfull example2.cfg

If spontaneity is desired over strict configuration, switch to the
B<digauto> mode of operation.  In this mode elaborate config files
aren't necessary, and output is written to stdout.  Also, no match
limit is imposed.  The following example shows how to search an
image file (e.g., example2.image) for a set of specific strings.
The output, if any, can be piped into other tools that take their
input on stdin.

    --- strings.cfg ---
    DigString=This+box+is+0wn3d
    DigString=3l33t
    DigString=175.20.1.7
    DigString=hacklist@foo.bar.com
    --- strings.cfg ---

    ftimes --digauto strings.cfg example2.image | some-other-tool

Just remember that dig strings must be URL encoded. That's why
the spaces in the first string have been replaced with '+'.

=head2 Example 3. Change analysis

This example demonstrates how to detect change between two snapshots.

Given that the following files are valid, uncompressed snapshots:

    Baseline = daily_20001230203000.map
    Snapshot = daily_20001231203000.map

Compare MD5 digests to determine changed, missing, and new files.

The only critical observation needed here is that daily_20001230203000.map
is considered to be the baseline.  In other words, a baseline is
a snapshot taken at an arbitrary point in time to which subsequent
snapshots are compared.

This comparison is carried out with the following command:

    ftimes --compare none+md5 daily_20001230203000.map daily_20001231203000.map

=head2 Example 4. Using put mode to upload a snapshot

This example demonstrates how to manually upload a snapshot to an
Integrity Server.  While this is definitely not the easiest
way to transfer data, it may be necessary at some point.

Suppose that you have a snapshot that was previously created using
the following command line:

    ftimes --maplean maplean.cfg

where maplean.cfg contained the following directives:

    --- maplean.cfg ---
    BaseName=S001_TEST_0001_0
    HashDirectories=Y
    FieldMask=all-magic
    Include=/etc
    OutDir=/maps
    --- maplean.cfg ---

Now, suppose that you wish to upload the associated snapshot files
(see below) to an account on an Integrity Server.

    /maps/S001_TEST_0001_0_20001230203000.log
    /maps/S001_TEST_0001_0_20001230203000.map

The first thing that needs to be done is to obtain the necessary
upload information.  Assume that an Integrity Server has already
been configured to receive snapshots.  Also, assume that the
following information has been provided:

    URL = https://192.168.1.50:443/cgi-client/nph-ftimes.cgi
    Authentication Type = Basic
    Username/ClientID = S001_TEST_0001_0
    Password = password
    AllowedFieldMask = ALL-magic
    Server Validates Client Certificates = N

The next thing to do is to create a config file.  Except for
B<RunType>, B<URLPutURL>, B<URLAuthType>, B<URLUsername>, and
B<URLPassword>, the controls in the following config file may be
obtained or derived by reviewing the log file.  Here RunType has
been arbitrarily set to snapshot -- it could have also been set to
linktest or baseline depending on your needs.

    --- example4.cfg ---
    BaseName=S001_TEST_0001_0
    LogFileName=/maps/S001_TEST_0001_0_20001230203000.log
    OutFileName=/maps/S001_TEST_0001_0_20001230203000.map
    OutFileHash=6958d1337f4f11312a402d0c8f9c050b
    DataType=map
    FieldMask=all-magic
    DateTime=20001230203000
    RunType=snapshot
    URLPutURL=https://192.168.1.50:443/cgi-client/nph-ftimes.cgi
    URLAuthType=basic
    URLUsername=S001_TEST_0001_0
    URLPassword=password
    --- example4.cfg ---

The last step is to run B<FTimes> and review the corresponding log
output to ensure that snapshot was uploaded successfully.

    ftimes --putmode example4.cfg

=head2 Example 5. Using get mode to download a config file

This example demonstrates how to download a config file from an
Integrity Server.

The first thing that needs to be done is to obtain the necessary
download information.  Assume that an Integrity Server has
already been configured to serve config files.  Also, assume that
the following information has been provided:

    URL = https://www.integrity.net:443/cgi-client/nph-ftimes.cgi
    Authentication Type = Basic
    Username/ClientID = S001_TEST_0001_0
    Password = password
    Server Validates Client Certificates = Y
    Server Common Name = www.integrity.net
    Maximum Certificate Chain Length = 2

Observe that remote server requires certificates.  This means that
you'll need three additional PEM encoded files: Public Certificate,
Private Key, and Bundled Certificate Authorities.  Assume that
these files are located on the target system as follows:

    /usr/local/integrity/etc/PublicCert.pem
    /usr/local/integrity/etc/PrivateKey.pem
    /usr/local/integrity/etc/BundledCAs.pem

Armed with that information, the following config file may be
constructed.

    --- example5.cfg ---
    BaseName=S001_TEST_0001_0
    URLGetURL=https://www.integrity.net:443/cgi-client/nph-ftimes.cgi
    URLGetRequest=MapFullConfig
    GetAndExec=N
    URLAuthType=basic
    URLUsername=S001_TEST_0001_0
    URLPassword=password
    SSLUseCertificate=Y
    SSLPublicCertFile=/usr/local/integrity/etc/PublicCert.pem
    SSLPrivateKeyFile=/usr/local/integrity/etc/PrivateKey.pem
    SSLPassPhrase=passphrase
    SSLVerifyPeerCert=Y
    SSLBundledCAsFile=/usr/local/integrity/etc/BundledCAs.pem
    SSLExpectedPeerCN=www.integrity.net
    SSLMaxChainLength=2
    --- example5.cfg ---

The following command will attempt to download a mapfull config
file from the specified Integrity Server.  If successful, the
contents of the config file will be written to stdout.

    ftimes --getmode example5.cfg

If you want to download directly to a file, you can redirect the
output to a file or add the B<GetFileName> control to your config
file.  Then, if you wanted to download a config file and take a
snapshot in one operation, simply enable B<GetAndExec>.  This causes
B<FTimes> to restart in B<--mapfull> mode.  If B<URLGetRequest> was
set to DigFullConfig, then B<FTimes> would request a digfull config
file and subsequently restart in B<--digfull> mode.

Another way to achieve the same effect is to use the original config
file and construct the following pipeline:

    ftimes --getmode example5.cfg -l 6 | ftimes --mapfull -

This has the benefit that potentially sensitive configuration
information is not specifically written to a file on disk.

Finally, note that the B<LogLevel> for the first command was set
to its highest value.  This was done simply to reduce log output
from that process.

