=head1 FILES

Several different files may be required as input or produced as
output in the course of running B<FTimes>.  These files are
generically described below.

=over 5

=item BaseName(_BaseNameSuffix)?.log

The main log file.  This file contains a record of the activities
that took place during a dig or map run provided that B<LogLevel>
was set at an appropriate level.

=item BaseName(_BaseNameSuffix)?.{dig,map}

The main output file.  This file contains possibly compressed map
or dig data collected during a scan.  The first line in this file
contains a header that specifies the name of each field collected.

=item Bundled Certificate Authorities

When B<SSLUseCertificate> has been enabled, B<FTimes> expects to
find a bundled certificate authorities file in the location
specified by B<SSLBundledCAs> control.  If this file does not
exist or have the proper format, B<FTimes> will abort.

=item Config

This file contains directives used to configure B<FTimes>.  In
general a particular config file applies to a single mode of
operation.  This is because different modes support different
controls.  Refer to the CONFIGURATION CONTROLS section of this
document to determine what controls apply to each mode.

=item Public Certificate and Private Key

When B<SSLUseCertificate> has been enabled, B<FTimes> expects to
find certificate and key files in the locations specified by
B<SSLPublicCert> and B<SSLPrivateKey> controls, respectively.  If
these files do not exist or have the proper format, B<FTimes> will
abort.

=item Snapshot

This is a previously created and possibly compressed map file that
is being supplied as input.  In compare mode it represents an
uncompressed map file and applies to both the B<baseline> and
B<snapshot> arguments.  In decoder mode it represents a compressed
map file.

=item XMagic

This file contains magic tests and descriptions.  The magic format
used by B<FTimes> is XMagic.  B<FTimes> searches up to three
locations for magic: (1) the location specified by the B<MagicFile>
control, (2) /usr/local/ftimes/etc/xmagic or c:\ftimes\etc\xmagic,
and (3) the current working directory.  B<FTimes> will not abort,
if a suitable file is not found, but magic output will be limited.

=back

