=head1 HISTORY

The official or given name of this utility is B<FTimes>, but
operationally it is referred to as B<ftimes>.  In the fledgling
stages of development, the name B<FTimes> was short for B<F>ile
B<Times>.  This was because its primary purpose was to collect
timestamp information from systems suspected of having been
compromised.

The first version of B<FTimes> was written in the Spring of 1998
to support a forensic examination of a compromised system.  At that
time, B<FTimes> was primarily a workbench tool for the forensic
practitioner.  As time passed, its audience expanded to include
system administrators and computer security professionals who needed
tools to monitor the integrity of their systems.  Eventually, it
became a core component in Exodus' Content Integrity Monitoring
Service (CIMS).

In the Fall of 2001, Exodus Communications, Inc. approved my request
to make B<FTimes> Open Source.  At that time version two was very
stable, but I was in the throws of creating version three which
was a major restructuring of the code base.  Consequently, I decided
to wait until the new version was complete before releasing it to
the community.

On January 29, 2002, the first Open Source version of FTimes was
released from SourceForge.

B<FTimes> continues to support the workbench environment, but has
evolved into a tool that can be utilized to support Integrity
Monitoring in large, diverse, and distributed environments.  Today,
B<FTimes> more appropriately equates to B<F>ile B<T>opography and
B<I>ntegrity B<M>onitoring on an B<E>nterprise B<S>cale.

The original design objectives for B<FTimes> were to build a tool that:

=over 5

=item *

does one thing extremely well (i.e., collect file attributes),

=item *

utilizes a simple, effective, and well understood algorithm that can be applied equally well to different operating systems,

=item *

generates output that is easily assimilated by a wide variety of existing tools,

=item *

has built-in logging that is complete, precise, and useful for analysis purposes,

=item *

is accurate, efficient, and minimally invasive,

=item *

doesn't need to be "installed" on a given system to work on that system,

=item *

is small enough to run from floppy even if statically compiled, and

=item *

provides only a command line interface.

=back

