=head1 MODES OF OPERATION

The modes of operation described in this section are mutually
exclusive.  In other words, only one mode may be specified per
invocation.  Unless otherwise stated, the value for the B<baseline>,
B<snapshot>, and B<file> arguments may be the name of a regular file
or '-'.  If the latter form is given, B<FTimes> expects to read the
equivalent input from stdin.  Note, however, that the B<baseline> and
B<snapshot> arguments can not be '-' simultaneously.  The elements and
syntax rules of for all configuration files are described in the
CONFIGURATION CONTROLS section of this document.  The B<level> option
is described in the OPTIONS section of this document.  The B<list>
option specifies one or more directories, files, or symbolic links
that are to be scanned.  Collectively, these items represent an
B<Include> list.  See the B<Include> control for more information.

=over 5

=item B<--cfgtest> B<{file|-}> B<mode> B<[-s]>

Verify the syntax of a given configuration B<file> in the context of a
specified B<mode> where B<mode> can be one of: B<digauto>, B<digfull>,
B<diglean>, B<getmode>, B<mapfull>, or B<maplean>.  The given
configuration B<file> is parsed with the same methods that would be
used if B<FTimes> had been invoked in that particular run B<mode>.  By
default, directories and files are not checked for existence.  This
allows config files to be tested in a separate environment from where
they will be used.  Strict testing (i.e., directories and files must
exist) may be enabled with the B<-s> option.

The value 'Syntax Passed' is written to stdout, if all syntax checks
are satisfied.  Otherwise, the value 'Syntax Failed' and a description
of the failure will be written to stdout.

Note: The fact that a given file passes all syntax checks does not
guarantee that its use will lead to a successful outcome.  It merely
ensures that specified controls are valid for a given mode, and
the values for those controls meet basic syntax requirements.

=item B<--compare> B<mask> B<{baseline|-}> B<{snapshot|-}> B<[-l level]>

Compare B<baseline> and B<snapshot> data according to the specified
B<mask> where mask identifies the attributes to be analyzed.  Output
is written to stdout and has the following format:

    category|name|changed|unknown

The category field indicates what type of change has occurred.  It
can have one of the following values:

    C - Changed
    M - Missing
    N - New
    U - Unknown (i.e., one or both fields were NULL)
    X - Cross (i.e., Changed and Unknown)

The changed field contains a comma separated list of fields that
have changed.  This field will be NULL if the category is New or
Missing.

The unknown field contains a comma separated list of fields that
could not be compared due to lack of information.  This field will
be NULL if the category is New or Missing.

The specified B<mask> must comply with the syntax rules set forth
for the B<FieldMask> control.

Note: The B<baseline> and B<snapshot> arguments can not be '-'
simultaneously.

Note: Support for comparing compressed snapshots was added in version
3.6.0.

=item B<--decoder> B<{snapshot|-}> B<[-l level]>

Decode a compressed B<snapshot>.  A compressed snapshot can be
created by running B<FTimes> in map mode (i.e., B<mapfull> or
B<maplean>) with B<Compress> enabled.  Output is written to stdout.

=item B<--digauto> B<{file|-}> B<[-l level]> B<[list]>

Use default configuration settings to search an B<Include> list for
a set of user defined strings.  These strings are defined in B<file>
according to the syntax for the B<DigStringNormal>, B<DigStringNoCase>,
and B<DigStringRegExp> controls.  If B<list> is not specified,
B<FTimes> will search the entire system including remote shares or
mount points.  Any device files specifically included in the B<list>
will be searched (i.e., B<AnalyzeDeviceFiles> is always enabled in
this mode of operation).  Output is written to stdout and has the
following format.

    name|type|tag|offset|string

The offset field, represented as a decimal value, contains the
location in the file identified by name where the specified string
was found.

=item B<--digfull> B<{file|-}> B<[-l level]> B<[list]>

Use the configuration settings in B<file> to search an B<Include> list
for a set of user defined strings.  The B<Include> list may be specified
by a combination of B<Include> controls and B<list> arguments.  If
an B<Include> list is not specified, B<FTimes> will search the entire
system.  Remote shares or mount points will only be searched if
B<AnalyzeRemoteFiles> is enabled.  Any device files specifically
included in the B<list> will only be searched if B<AnalyzeDeviceFiles>
is enabled.

=item B<--diglean> B<{file|-}> B<[-l level]> B<[list]>

Use the configuration settings in B<file> to search an B<Include> list
for a set of user defined strings.  The B<Include> list may be specified
by a combination of B<Include> controls and B<list> arguments.  If
an B<Include> list is not specified, B<FTimes> will search the entire
system.  Remote shares or mount points will only be searched if
B<AnalyzeRemoteFiles> is enabled.  Any device files specifically
included in the B<list> will only be searched if B<AnalyzeDeviceFiles>
is enabled.  The difference between this mode and B<--digfull> is
that fewer controls are defined/available and output can be written
directly to std{err,out}.

=item B<--getmode> B<{file|-}>

Use the configuration settings in B<file> to download digfull,
diglean, mapfull, or maplean configuration information.  One of
three possible actions, depending on how getmode is configured,
will take place once the download is complete:

=over 5

=item *

B<FTimes> writes the downloaded information to stdout,

=item *

B<FTimes> writes the downloaded information to the file specified by B<GetFileName>, or

=item *

B<FTimes> restarts in B<digfull>, B<diglean>, B<mapfull>, or B<maplean> using the downloaded information as its new configuration file

=back

The first action is effected when B<GetAndExec> is disabled and
B<GetFileName> is not specified.  The second action is effected
when B<GetAndExec> is disabled and B<GetFileName> is specified.
The third action is effected when B<GetAndExec> is enabled and
B<GetFileName> is specified.

=item B<--mapauto> B<mask> B<[-l level]> B<[list]>

Use default configuration settings to map an B<Include> list according
to the specified B<mask> where mask identifies the attributes to
be collected.  If B<list> is not specified, B<FTimes> will map the
entire system including remote shares or mount points.  Any device
files specifically included in the B<list> will be mapped (i.e.,
B<AnalyzeDeviceFiles> is always enabled in this mode of operation).
Output is written to stdout, and its format depends on the value
of B<mask>.

The specified B<mask> must comply with the syntax rules set forth
for the B<FieldMask> control.

=item B<--mapfull> B<{file|-}> B<[-l level]> B<[list]>

Use configuration settings in B<file> to map an B<Include> list.  The
B<Include> list may be specified by a combination of B<Include> controls
and B<list> arguments.  If an B<Include> list is not specified,
B<FTimes> will map the entire system.  Remote shares or mount points
will only be mapped if B<AnalyzeRemoteFiles> is enabled.  Any device
files specifically included in the B<list> will only be mapped
if B<AnalyzeDeviceFiles> is enabled.

=item B<--maplean> B<{file|-}> B<[-l level]> B<[list]>

Use configuration settings in B<file> to map an B<Include> list.  The
B<Include> list may be specified by a combination of B<Include> controls
and B<list> arguments.  If an B<Include> list is not specified, B<FTimes>
will map the entire system.  Remote shares or mount points will
only be mapped if B<AnalyzeRemoteFiles> is enabled.  Any device
files specifically included in the B<list> will only be mapped
if B<AnalyzeDeviceFiles> is enabled.  The difference between this mode
and B<--mapfull> is that fewer controls are defined/available and
output can be written directly to std{err,out}.

=item B<--version>

Display version information and exit.

=back

