=head1 NOTES

The name attribute may be partially encoded if it contains any
special characters.  Special characters are defined as C<[`'"|%+]>
or any non-printable character.  If a name contains Unicode
characters, the high byte is always encoded, and the low byte is
encoded as described above.  To decode an encoded name, first
convert all pluses to spaces (i.e., '+' -> ' ').  Then, moving from
left to right, convert each %HH sequence, to its byte value.  Here
'H' denotes a hex digit.

As a matter of security and good configuration control, you should
create a baseline of your entire system on a periodic basis and
whenever major events occur such as the addition/removal of software
packages or the application of system/security patches.

In critical situations it is best to enable B<RequirePrivilege>
and run B<FTimes> from a privileged account.  This will avoid common
hang-ups associated with having too little privilege.  Backup and
restore rights are required to satisfy B<RequirePrivilege> on NT
systems, and root privilege is required for UNIX systems.  If you
are simply scanning your own files, you probably do not need to
enable B<RequirePrivilege>.  On NT systems the operator may need
the bypass traverse checking privilege in addition to backup and
restore rights.  Also, make sure that domain policies aren't
rendering the operator's privileges ineffective.

In general, use the default LogLevel and review the log data after
each invocation as it may reveal errors or issues that need to be
addressed.

In general, create distinct config files for each profile you intend
to maintain.  Here, profile refers to the set of files and directories
within a given host that you intend to scan on a regular basis.
If you have a large number of profiles that share a common set of
controls, you may want to move these controls to a single file.
Then, you may simply refer to this file using the B<Import> control.

Set B<OutDir> to a directory that has the capacity to hold all
resultant data.  If external media such as jaz, zip, or floppy are
available, consider using them.  However, using a floppy is not
generally recommended unless you know that it has the capacity to
hold the data.  You may also want to consider writing output to an
NFS, Samba, or Windows share.  A third option is to use B<FTimes'>
built-in upload capability, and post your data directly to an
Integrity Server.

Setting B<LogDir> to a path that represents a floppy device may be
useful if data integrity is a concern and there is no removable or
protectible media available to store all of the anticipated output.
The reason for this is that the log file will contain an MD5 digest
of the output file upon the completion of the map.  Because the
log data was written to floppy, it would be possible to remove and
write protect this information for safe keeping.  This would provide
additional time to offload the results of the map, which can be
quite large.  Obviously, both files can still be altered by a
skilled attacker positioned to take advantage of the situation.

Manage dig and map config files on your Integrity Server, and
use B<FTimes'> get mode (i.e., B<--getmode>) to automatically retrieve
them at runtime.  This facilitates centralized management and helps
to protect potentially sensitive configuration information.

Use the B<URLPutSnapshot>, B<URLPutURL>, B<URLUsername>, B<URLPassword>,
and B<URLAuthType> controls when you want to automatically upload
data to an Integrity Server that is configured to handle
B<FTimes'> PUT requests.

If you have an SSL enabled version of B<FTimes>, you'll need to
ensure that OpenSSL and/or its libraries are installed and accessible
to B<FTimes> on the target platform.

When possible, mount target file systems as read only.  This will
help to ensure minimal time stamp perturbation.  In any event,
B<FTimes> accurately records time stamp information before it is
modified by any subsequent access.

